---           
layout: post
title: Reports of Manufacturing's Death Greatly Exaggerated
date: 2012-01-03 04:16:00 UTC
comments: true
categories: 
tags: athulan
---

Scott Anderson, a senior economist at Wells Fargo, in an interview with the Star Tribune (hat tip to @JHJackoCMO for tweeting about this):
> ... before 1980 there was a strong positive correlation between manufacturing and jobs, but since then that correlation has basically been turned upside down. What that means is that we're producing more and more, yet we're actually losing jobs. The extent of that shift tells us there's a structural change that's gone on that deserves a deeper look.

The interesting implication here is that companies are finding ways of increasing their output even as their labor size shrinks. This places greater importance on the tools that manufacturers have available to analyze and improve the efficiency of their operations. Greater automation means that more data is being generated by more equipment and we will need ways of reasoning over them in both realtime and over longer (historical) periods. Big Data to the rescue? We think so!


A good example is again going back to the MTConnect Alarms discussed in the previous post. While previously shops might have had one operator per machine tool at all times, with greater automation and multi-tasking machines, one operator might be supervising a cell of several machine tools. Instead of barraging the operator with all the Alarms these machines generate, we can apply filtering and classification techniques to only display pertinent Alarms. We will examine some of these techniques in an upcoming post. 
