---
layout: post
author: Will Sobel
title: "The Next Generation of American Manufacturing"
date: 2013-06-24 11:53
comments: true
categories: mtconnect MC2
---

Steve Fritzinger, NetApp's Virtualization Alliance Manager, Java
Author and Economics Writer, discusses the future of American
manufacturing with Penny Brown from IMTS TV. America is by no means a
laggard in the world of manufacturing; we are very competitive and
with a proper educational foundation and technology, we can retain our
position and exceed our current standing. But in order to do so,
American manufacturing must adapt to survive.

div=. <iframe width="560" height="315" src="http://www.youtube.com/embed/c1qtzgr9KN0?rel=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

At the heart of this revolution is technology. The new manufacturing
jobs will be more technical and require increasingly skilled
labor. The machines and technology will do the simple tasks, leaving
our labor force to focus on performance, new processes, and
materials. Standards and standards based solutions will enable this
revolution because manufactures will have the ability to leverage a
wider choice of solutions that specifically address their needs.

Unlike the current situation, each product shares a common
infrastructure with no additional per-product cost for
connectivity. As well, this reduces the barrier of entry for new
products and services, so there are more options and faster
deployment. In the end the market grows as the demand increase,
creating a larger aggregate for everyone.

Our product, vimana, exclusively uses standard based data collection to
drive our analytics platform. We believe that promoting the industry
and developing standards will increase the understanding of what is
possible and in the end will push the boundaries of the industry. If
the industry is more advanced, then our solutions will be able to
leverage an informed market that is asking for ways to improve and
compete effectively, regardless of where they're located.
